# capstone-northpoint
North-Point Software Production Company 
Introduction
North-Point is a software list firm that sells games and educational software. It started out as a software manufacturer and later added third-party title to its offerings. It has recently put together a revised collection of items in a new Listing, which it is preparing to roll out in a mailing.
In addition to its own software titles, North-Point’s customer list is a key asset. In an attempt to expand its customer base, it has recently joined a consortium of listing firms that specialized in computer hardware and software products. The consortium afford members the opportunity to mail lists of names drawn from a pooled list of customers. Members supply their own customers lists to the pool and can withdraw an equivalent number of names in each quarter. Members are allowed to do predictive modeling on the records in the pool so they can do a better job of selecting customer names from the pool. 
The Mailing Experiment
North-Point has supplied its customer list of 200,000 names to the pool, which totals over 5,000,000 names, so it is now entitled to pick 200,000 names for a mailing.
North-Point would like to select the name that have the best chance of performing well, so it conduct a test – it draws 20,000 names from the pool and does a test mailing of the new list. 
This mailing yielded 1065 purchasers, a response rate of 0.053 or 5.3%. To optimize the performance of the machine learning models, it was decided to work with a stratified sample that contained equal number of purchasers and non-purchasers. For ease of presentation, the data set in this project includes just 1000 purchasers and 1000 non-purchasers, an apparent response rate of 0.5 or 50%. Therefore, after using the dataset to predict who will be a purchaser, we must adjust the purchase rate back down by multiplying each “case’s probability of purchase” by 5.3/50 or 0.106.
Dataset
There are two outcome variables in this case. Purchase variable indicates, whether or not a prospect customer responded to the test mailing and purchased something. Spending Variable indicates, for those who made a purchase, how much they spent. The overall procedure in this case will be to develop two models. One will be used to classify observations (customers) as purchase or no-purchase. The second model will be used for those cases that are classified as purchase and will predict the amount they will spend.
